This project is about building a dashboard using the data of Maven Market sales. It has the following tables: 

MavenMarket_Customers.csv
MavenMarket_Products.csv
MavenMarket_Stores.csv
MavenMarket_Regions.csv
MavenMarket_Calendar.csv
MavenMarket_Returns.csv 
MavenMarket Transactions.csv

in the first step, I uploaded all the tables to the Power BI, made some transformations on it, updated the data types, table names and added some columns. 

in the second step, I created the relationships between the tables by using foreign and primary keys. 

in the third step, I added some columns by using DAX query language:
  1. Calendar Table: "Weekend" column which shows whether the date is weekend or weekday. If it is weekend it shows "Y", otherwise "N"
  2. Calendar Table: "End of month" column which shows the last date of the month given in the specific row. 
  3. Customer Table: "Current Age" column which shows the current age of customer.
  4. Customer Table: "Priority" column which equals "High" if the customer has his/her own home and have "golden membership card". Otherwise, it shows "Standard" 
  5. Customer Table: "Short_Country" column which returns the first three characters of the customer country and then upparcase it. 
  6. Customer Table: "House Number" column which extracts the first numbers before the space from the "customer_address" column
  7. Products Table: "Price_Tier" column which is equal "High"  if the <retail_price is greater than 3$>; "Mid" if <retail price is greater than 1$>, "Low", otherwise.
  8. Stores Table: "Years_Since_Remodel" column which shows how many years passed after the last remodel date. 
These are the added columns which created by DAX query language. The formuls used to create these columns can be seen in the "VasifAsadov_MavenMarket_Analysis.pbix" file


In the fourth step, I created measurements table which consists of the DAX calculation results which will be used in the visualization charts:
  1. "Quantity Sold" which shows the sum of sold (or transacted) products. 
  2. "Quantity Returned" which shows the sum of returned products. 
  3. "Total Transactions" shows the count of all transactions
  4. "Total Returns" shows the count of all returns.
  5. "Return Rate" shows the ratio of the quantity return to quantity sold.
  6. "Weekend Transactions" shows the number of transactions occured on weekends.
  7. "% Weekend Transactions" shows how much percentage of total transactions occured in weekends
  8. "All transactions" shows all transactions by removing filter context (with "ALL" function)
  9. "All Returns" shows all returns by removing filter context (with "All" function)
  10. "Total Revenue" calculates the total income by multiplying transaction quantity with product_retail_price within row context, and then summing all row results
  11. "Total Cost" calculates the total cost by multiplying transaction quantity with the product_cost within row context (iterators), and then summing all row results. 
  12. "Profit Margin" shows the ratio of total profit to total revenue
  13. "Unique Products" shows the number of unique product names
  14. "YTD Revenue" calculates the year-to-date total revenue
  15. "60-Day Revenue" shows the total revenue over 60 day period
  16. "Last Month Transactions", "Last Month Revenue", "Last Month Profit" and "Last Month Returns" shows the transactions, revenue, profit and returns of the previous
month, respectively. 
  17. "Revenue Target" shows the target of the next month, which is equal to 1.05 of the revenue of the previous month.

In the final step, I created an interactive dashboard. I put 
  1. A matrix which shows [total transactions, total profit, profit margin, return rate] by [product_brand]. I applied Top N filtering, hence the matrix shows the top
30 countries with the highest total transactions.
  2. KPI cards which show transaction, profit and returns of the previous month. 
  3. A card wich shows the number of total transactions
  4. A map that shows in which countries there are Maven Market Stores. 
  5. A slicer that shows different countries 
  6. Bar char which shows total revenue by week. 
  7. And a gauge that shows the total revenue, and revenue target. 


The project consists of these steps. 






